Disasters can shake us to our core.
They can take away everything we have.
In some cases, even our loved ones.
Face with such tragedy,
many think these disasters are acts of God,
perhaps even His punishment.
Some may feel that since God,
the creator of the universe,
as the power to control the forces of nature,
when natural disasters occur,
they must be His doing.
We were on the fifth floor
of our apartment building
when a nurse quick hit.
Everything shook
and in just seconds,
the building collapsed.
The hurricane destroyed everything.
I was terrified.
When I woke up,
I realized I was trapped.
I couldn't move.
I laid there for two days
before rescuers found me.
When I was in the hospital,
my injuries were so severe
that I had to lose one of my legs.
I kept thinking,
we are good people.
Why would God allow such bad things
to happen to us?
And I thought,
what could I have done
to make God so angry with me?
Our natural disasters
really acts of God.
What does the Bible say?
At 1 John 4 verse 8,
the Bible assures us
that God's foremost quality is love.
In fact, it says,
God is love.
He wants us to be happy
to enjoy all the beautiful things
he created and to benefit
from Earth's natural forces.
There is nothing in the Bible
to suggest that God is presently
using the forces of nature
to punish anyone,
wicked or not.
Still, natural disasters
continue to happen
and bring suffering
and death to many,
including good people.
Since natural disasters
are not acts of God,
and He does care about us,
why do they happen?
I learned that God does not cause suffering.
But time in unexpected events
may overtake any of us.
But it's not because God is angry with us.
One day,
a friend of mine
who also lost her legs in the earthquake
told me that Jehovah's Witnesses
showed her from the Bible
that the Earth will be a paradise.
We will have our legs again
and we will be able to walk
and run and dance.
That gave me confidence
that God loves us very much
and He is going to make
everything wonderful.
When I read Isaiah chapter 35 verse 6,
where Jehovah got promises
that the lane will leap like the deer.
I finally understood
that a God who would make that promise
would never hurt good people.
I had been lied to about God.
But now I know
that Jehovah's promises are real.
The Bible clearly teaches
that God is not responsible
for natural disasters.
In fact, He promises
to eliminate all causes of pain and suffering.
Look,
the tent of God is with mankind
and He will reside with them
and they will be His people
and God Himself will be with them.
And He will wipe out every tear
from their eyes
and death will be no more.
Neither will morning,
nor outcry,
nor pain be anymore.
The former things have passed away.
The former things,
including natural disasters,
will have passed away.
But if God is love,
why does He allow suffering?
How does He feel about your suffering?
How long will human suffering
continue?
To learn more about what the Bible says
on this and many other topics,
go to JW.org.